

ahg2142

1. **In your own words, what is version or source control?**
	Version control is a way to manage different iterations of the same software, as well as a way for people to contribute asynchronously to development and then merge their changes in a relatively hassle-free way.
2. **Explain the difference between Git and GitHub.**
	Git is the software that does the version controlling, branching and merging. GitHub contributes server hosting, a GUI, and a bunch of other project management tools like issues and that Trello lookalike board.
3. **In a few sentences, explain what a "commit" is?**
	A commit is a collection of changes that you're capturing as a state in Git, along with a certain message. You can revert to a certain commit or examine the specifics of the change.
4. **What is a "branch" in Git terms?**
	A branch is its own Git timeline with its own commit. Changes merged into the branch stay on that particular branch instead of the master branch. You can also merge it into another branch, and either keep the commit history and rebase onto the new branch or just squash them into one merge commit.
5. **What is a repository? Explain what happens when you "push" to and "pull" from a repository.**
	A repository is a collection of Git branches. It also has metadata like collaborators, pemissions, the upstream location, etc. Pushing means uploading your own code to wherever it is (and unless you're using `--force` you would have to synchronize any remote changes beforehand), while pulling means integrating the remote changes into your version of the repository.
6. **What is involved in the "clone" operation?**
	Cloning (as opposed to forking) means creating a copy of the original repository, with the same owner and metadata. It's usually the precursor to starting to work on a repo.
7. **Find an example of Git being used for a peer production project. In several paragraphs answer the following: Who are they? What do they do? Who maintains the repository? What are the rules for contributing.**
	
	[Grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) is an open-source metrics graphing software that's mainly being worked on by two Scandinavian developers, torkelo and bergquist. Grafana takes data being streamed from CloudWatch or Graphite and then creates a server to display them. I used it over the summer and got a PR merged because it was pretty powerful, but sorely lacking in documentation, especially for the API.
	
	The repo is mostly maintained by torkelo. He gives a lot of terse, somewhat condescending responses to issue reports, but also seems to take the inititative more often when it comes to adding features.
	
	To contribute to the repo, you need to have built grafana locally to test it. You also have to sign the Contributor License Agreement, and then wait for the webhooked CircleCI tests to pass. Finally, an owner of the repo (usually bergquist) will approve and execute the merge.
